Starting Your Project So where should you start your deep learning journey? The most important thing is to ensure that you have some project to work on—it is only through working on your own projects that you will get real experience building and using models. When selecting a project, the most important consideration is data availability. Regardless of whether you are doing a project just for your own learning or for practical application in your organization, you want something where you can get started quickly. We have seen many students, researchers, and industry practitioners waste months or years while they attempt to find their perfect dataset. The goal is not to find the "perfect" dataset or project, but just to get started and literate from there. If you take this approach, then you will be on your third iteration of learning and improving while the perfectionists are still in the planning stages! We also suggest that you literate from end to end in your project; that is, don't spend months fine-tuning your model, or polishing the perfect UI, or labelling the perfect dataset... Instead, complete every step as well as you can in a reasonable amount of time, all the way to the end. For instance, if your final goal is an application that runs on a mobile phone, then that should be what you have after each iteration. But perhaps in the early iterations you take some shortcuts, for instance by doing all of the processing on a remote server, and using a simple responsive web application. By completing the project end to end, you will see where the trickiest bits are, and which bits make the biggest difference to the final result. As you work through this book, we suggest that you complete lots of small experiments, by running and adjusting the notebooks we provide, at the same time that you gradually develop your own projects. That way, you will be getting experience with all of the tools and techniques that we're explaining, as we discuss them. s: To make the most of this book, take the time to experiment between each chapter, be it on your own project or by exploring the notebooks we provide. Then try rewriting those notebooks from scratch on a new dataset. It's only by practicing (and failing) a lot that you will get an intuition of how to train a model. By using the end-to-end iteration approach you will also get a better understanding of how much data you really need. For instance, you may find you can only easily get 200 labeled data items, and you can't really know until you try whether that's enough to get the performance you need for your application to work well in practice. In an organizational context you will be able to show your colleagues that your idea can really work by showing them a real working prototype. We have repeatedly observed that this is the secret to getting good organizational buy-in for a project. Since it is easiest to get started on a project where you already have data available, that means it's probably easiest to get started on a project related to something you are already doing, because you already have data about things that you are doing. For instance, if you work in the music business, you may have access to many recordings. If you work as a radiologist, you probably have access to lots of medical images. If you are interested in wildlife preservation, you may have access to lots of images of wildlife. Sometimes, you have to get a bit creative. Maybe you can find some previous machine learning project, such as a Eagle competition, that is related to your field of interest. Sometimes, you have to compromise. Maybe you can't find the exact data you need for the precise project you have in mind; but you might be able to find something from a similar domain, or measured in a different way, tackling a slightly different problem. Working on these kinds of similar projects will still give you a good understanding of the overall process, and may help you identify other shortcuts, data sources, and so forth. Especially when you are just starting out with deep learning, it's not a good idea to branch out into very different areas, to places that deep learning has not been applied to before. That's because if your model does not work at first, you will not know whether it is because you have made a mistake, or if the very problem you are trying to solve is simply not sortable with deep learning. And you won't know where to look to get help. Therefore, it is best at first to start with something where you can find an example online where somebody has had good results with something that is at least somewhat similar to what you are trying to achieve, or where you can convert your data into a format similar to what someone else has used before (such as creating an image from your data). Let's have a look at the state of deep learning, just so you know what kinds of things deep learning is good at right now. The State of Deep Learning 